---
title: "My No BS Guide to Get Into Cloud"
description: "I'm not here to baby you, here's the truth."
pubDate: 2022-12-25
updatedDate: 2024-12-25
tags: ["cloud"]
---

<p>Here’s my advice for breaking into cloud without a degree. This is the path I took—from making $15/hour selling iPhones to earning a ~200k USD base salary at one of the most recognized tech companies. If you're looking for a quick fix, skip this—this isn’t easy money. It took me five years, but I’m sharing this to make it simpler for you.</p><p><strong>Start in support.</strong> Work hard for a year and use your free time to upskill. I know support roles get a bad rap, and everyone wants to skip them, but trust me—they teach you valuable high-level skills like documentation, ticketing systems, and troubleshooting that set you up for your next role.</p><p>While you're upskilling, <a href="https://youtu.be/x8cKzBGnICg?si=emqoxosnMneOTaIs" rel="noreferrer"><strong>get the two most relevant certifications for your target position</strong></a> (do your research!) and build as many projects as possible. Document everything—it’ll help you <a href="https://youtu.be/xKIacODRs7E?si=AaDZjG7_FPOSGaFs" rel="noreferrer">practice for interviews</a> and stand out. I created <a href="https://learntocloud.guide" rel="noopener">Learn to Cloud</a>, a free and open-source guide that outlines the technical skills and projects you’ll need for cloud engineering.</p><p>After a year in support, you’ll have enough experience to move up. When applying for your next role, don’t focus too much on job titles; focus on descriptions. Many roles offer cloud exposure without “cloud” in the title. If you meet at least 50% of the job requirements, apply. <strong>Tailor your resume and cover letter</strong>—yes, cover letters. Even if it makes only a 1% difference, that’s worth it.</p><p>Above all, <strong>learn how to learn.</strong> Being self-taught is possible, but it’s challenging. Take the time to figure out how you learn best. Watch Barbara Oakley’s TED Talk <a href="https://youtu.be/O96fE1E-rf8?si=KFkGjA_5TWyes41Z" rel="noreferrer"><em>Learning How to Learn</em></a>. It showed me I wasn’t dumb—I just needed the right strategies. </p><p>Focus on <strong>actually learning</strong>, not just looking like you’re learning. Too many beginners get caught up in building an audience before they’ve built the skills. Build first, document after.</p><p>We all have the same 24 hours, you will have to sacrifice to make time for what matters. Even just 90 minutes a day can be powerful. Use to do lists and calendars to help schedule time. <a href="https://youtu.be/88hnhRmpPZs?si=U8gA1-m_buwCVnwd" rel="noreferrer">If you can afford 2 hours a day to study, this might work for you.</a></p><p>I don’t recommend paid bootcamps, especially in this market. If you need structure, sure, but they’re often not worth the thousands they charge when you can teach yourself for free. Upskilling is a lifelong journey. The sooner you master it independently, the better.</p><p>If you truly want it, put in the work and go after it. Those deterred by AI likely didn't want it badly enough in the first place. Instead of wasting time debating whether this field is worth getting into, use that energy to study and grow. If you’d rather spend time on the former... that’s mistake number one.</p><p><strong>Network smartly.</strong> Attend free meetups and events, but don’t be a leech. Bring value to every relationship. If someone extends an opportunity or favor, show up with your best. Be honest, authentic, kind, and hardworking.</p><p>You can do this. I know you can.</p><p>Much luck in 2025,<br><strong>GPS</strong></p>
